10-redux/README.md, before:

# 10 - Redux

In this chapter (which is the most difficult so far) we will be adding Redux to our application and will hook it up with React. Redux manages the state of your application. It is composed of a **store** which is a plain JavaScript object representing the state of your app, **actions** which are typically triggered by users, and **reducers** which can be seen as action handlers. Reducers affect your application state (the *store*), and when the application state is modified, things happen in your app.

In order to demonstrate how to use Redux in the simplest possible way, our app will consist of a message and a button. The message says whether the dog has barked or not (it initially hasn't), and the button makes the dog bark, which should update the message.

We are going to need 2 packages in this part, `redux` and `react-redux`.

- Run `npm install --save redux react-redux`.

Lets start by creating 2 folders: `src/client/actions` and `src/client/reducers`.

- In `actions`, create `dog-actions.js`:

```javascript
export const MAKE_BARK = 'MAKE_BARK';

export const makeBark = () => ({
  type: MAKE_BARK,
  payload: true,
});
```
Here we define an action type, `MAKE_MARK`, and a function that triggers a `MAKE_BARK` action called `makeBark`. Both are exported because we'll need them both in other files.

- In `reducers`, create `dog-reducer.js`:

```javascript
import { MAKE_BARK } from '../actions/dog-actions';

const initialState = {
  hasBarked: false,
};

const dogReducer = (state = initialState, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case MAKE_BARK:
      return { hasBarked: action.payload };
    default:
      return state;
  }
};

export default dogReducer;
```

Here we define the initial state of our app, which is an object containing the `hasBarked` property set to `false`, and the `dogReducer`, which is the function responsible for altering the state based on which action happened.

- We are now going to modify `app.jsx` to create the *store*. You can replace the entire content of that file by the following:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux';
import { Provider } from 'react-redux';
import dogReducer from './reducers/dog-reducer';
import BarkMessage from './containers/bark-message';
import BarkButton from './containers/bark-button';

const store = createStore(combineReducers({
  dog: dogReducer,
}));

ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <div>
      <BarkMessage />
      <BarkButton />
    </div>
  </Provider>
  , document.querySelector('.app')
);
```

Our store is created by the Redux function `createStore`, pretty explicit. The store object is assembled by combining all our reducers (in our case, only one) using Redux's `combineReducers` function. Each reducer is named here, and we'll name ours `dog`.

That's pretty much it for the pure Redux part.

Now we are going to hook up Redux with React using `react-redux`. In order for `react-redux` to pass the store to our React app, it needs to wrap the entire app in a `<Provider>` component. This component must have a single child, so we created a `<div>`, and this `<div>` contains the 2 main elements of our app, a `BarkMessage` and a `BarkButton`.

As you can tell in the `import` section, `BarkMessage` and `BarkMessage` are imported from a `containers` folder. Now is a good time to introduce the concept of **Components** and **Containers**.

*Components* are *dumb* React components, in a sense that they don't know anything about the Redux state. *Containers* are *smart* components that know about the state and that we are going to *connect* to our dumb components.

- Create 2 folders, `src/client/components` and `src/client/containers`.

- In `components`, create the following files:

**button.jsx**

```javascript
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';

const Button = ({ action, actionLabel }) => <button onClick={action}>{actionLabel}</button>;

Button.propTypes = {
  action: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
  actionLabel: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
};

export default Button;
```

and **message.jsx**:

```javascript
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';

const Message = ({ message }) => <div>{message}</div>;

Message.propTypes = {
  message: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
};

export default Message;

```

These are examples of *dumb* components. They are logic-less, and just show whatever they are asked to show via React **props**. The main difference between `button.jsx` and `message.jsx` is that `Button` contains an **action** in its props. That action is bound on the `onClick` event. In the context of our app, the `Button` label is never going to change, however, the `Message` component is going to reflect the state of our app, and will vary based on the state.

Again, *components* don't know anything about Redux **actions** or the **state** of our app, which is why we are going to create smart **containers** that will feed the proper *actions* and *data* to these 2 dumb components.

- In `containers`, create the following files:

**bark-button.js**

```javascript
import { connect } from 'react-redux';
import Button from '../components/button';
import { makeBark } from '../actions/dog-actions';

const mapDispatchToProps = dispatch => ({
  action: () => { dispatch(makeBark()); },
  actionLabel: 'Bark',
});

export default connect(null, mapDispatchToProps)(Button);
```

and **bark-message.js**:

```javascript
import { connect } from 'react-redux';
import Message from '../components/message';

const mapStateToProps = state => ({
  message: state.dog.hasBarked ? 'The dog barked' : 'The dog did not bark',
});

export default connect(mapStateToProps)(Message);
```

`BarkButton` will hook up `Button` with the `makeBark` action and Redux's `dispatch` method, and `BarkMessage` will hook up the app state with `Message`. When the state changes, `Message` will now automatically re-render with the proper `message` prop. These connections are done via the `connect` function of `react-redux`.

- You can now run `npm start` and open `index.html`. You should see "The dog did not bark" and a button. When you click the button, the message should show "The dog barked".

Next section: [11 - Immutable JS and Redux Improvements](/11-immutable-redux-improvements)

Back to the [previous section](/9-webpack) or the [table of contents](https://github.com/verekia/modern-js-stack-training).

Commit message:

Add Flux Standard Action link

10-redux/README.md, after:

# 10 - Redux

In this chapter (which is the most difficult so far) we will be adding Redux to our application and will hook it up with React. Redux manages the state of your application. It is composed of a **store** which is a plain JavaScript object representing the state of your app, **actions** which are typically triggered by users, and **reducers** which can be seen as action handlers. Reducers affect your application state (the *store*), and when the application state is modified, things happen in your app.

In order to demonstrate how to use Redux in the simplest possible way, our app will consist of a message and a button. The message says whether the dog has barked or not (it initially hasn't), and the button makes the dog bark, which should update the message.

We are going to need 2 packages in this part, `redux` and `react-redux`.

- Run `npm install --save redux react-redux`.

Lets start by creating 2 folders: `src/client/actions` and `src/client/reducers`.

- In `actions`, create `dog-actions.js`:

```javascript
export const MAKE_BARK = 'MAKE_BARK';

export const makeBark = () => ({
  type: MAKE_BARK,
  payload: true,
});
```
Here we define an action type, `MAKE_MARK`, and a function that triggers a `MAKE_BARK` action called `makeBark`. Both are exported because we'll need them both in other files. This action implements the [Flux Standard Action](https://github.com/acdlite/flux-standard-action) model, which is why it has `type` and `payload` attributes.

- In `reducers`, create `dog-reducer.js`:

```javascript
import { MAKE_BARK } from '../actions/dog-actions';

const initialState = {
  hasBarked: false,
};

const dogReducer = (state = initialState, action) => {
  switch (action.type) {
    case MAKE_BARK:
      return { hasBarked: action.payload };
    default:
      return state;
  }
};

export default dogReducer;
```

Here we define the initial state of our app, which is an object containing the `hasBarked` property set to `false`, and the `dogReducer`, which is the function responsible for altering the state based on which action happened.

- We are now going to modify `app.jsx` to create the *store*. You can replace the entire content of that file by the following:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux';
import { Provider } from 'react-redux';
import dogReducer from './reducers/dog-reducer';
import BarkMessage from './containers/bark-message';
import BarkButton from './containers/bark-button';

const store = createStore(combineReducers({
  dog: dogReducer,
}));

ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <div>
      <BarkMessage />
      <BarkButton />
    </div>
  </Provider>
  , document.querySelector('.app')
);
```

Our store is created by the Redux function `createStore`, pretty explicit. The store object is assembled by combining all our reducers (in our case, only one) using Redux's `combineReducers` function. Each reducer is named here, and we'll name ours `dog`.

That's pretty much it for the pure Redux part.

Now we are going to hook up Redux with React using `react-redux`. In order for `react-redux` to pass the store to our React app, it needs to wrap the entire app in a `<Provider>` component. This component must have a single child, so we created a `<div>`, and this `<div>` contains the 2 main elements of our app, a `BarkMessage` and a `BarkButton`.

As you can tell in the `import` section, `BarkMessage` and `BarkMessage` are imported from a `containers` folder. Now is a good time to introduce the concept of **Components** and **Containers**.

*Components* are *dumb* React components, in a sense that they don't know anything about the Redux state. *Containers* are *smart* components that know about the state and that we are going to *connect* to our dumb components.

- Create 2 folders, `src/client/components` and `src/client/containers`.

- In `components`, create the following files:

**button.jsx**

```javascript
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';

const Button = ({ action, actionLabel }) => <button onClick={action}>{actionLabel}</button>;

Button.propTypes = {
  action: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
  actionLabel: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
};

export default Button;
```

and **message.jsx**:

```javascript
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';

const Message = ({ message }) => <div>{message}</div>;

Message.propTypes = {
  message: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
};

export default Message;

```

These are examples of *dumb* components. They are logic-less, and just show whatever they are asked to show via React **props**. The main difference between `button.jsx` and `message.jsx` is that `Button` contains an **action** in its props. That action is bound on the `onClick` event. In the context of our app, the `Button` label is never going to change, however, the `Message` component is going to reflect the state of our app, and will vary based on the state.

Again, *components* don't know anything about Redux **actions** or the **state** of our app, which is why we are going to create smart **containers** that will feed the proper *actions* and *data* to these 2 dumb components.

- In `containers`, create the following files:

**bark-button.js**

```javascript
import { connect } from 'react-redux';
import Button from '../components/button';
import { makeBark } from '../actions/dog-actions';

const mapDispatchToProps = dispatch => ({
  action: () => { dispatch(makeBark()); },
  actionLabel: 'Bark',
});

export default connect(null, mapDispatchToProps)(Button);
```

and **bark-message.js**:

```javascript
import { connect } from 'react-redux';
import Message from '../components/message';

const mapStateToProps = state => ({
  message: state.dog.hasBarked ? 'The dog barked' : 'The dog did not bark',
});

export default connect(mapStateToProps)(Message);
```

`BarkButton` will hook up `Button` with the `makeBark` action and Redux's `dispatch` method, and `BarkMessage` will hook up the app state with `Message`. When the state changes, `Message` will now automatically re-render with the proper `message` prop. These connections are done via the `connect` function of `react-redux`.

- You can now run `npm start` and open `index.html`. You should see "The dog did not bark" and a button. When you click the button, the message should show "The dog barked".

Next section: [11 - Immutable JS and Redux Improvements](/11-immutable-redux-improvements)

Back to the [previous section](/9-webpack) or the [table of contents](https://github.com/verekia/modern-js-stack-training).
